# Event-Otter-Mobile-Application
This AndroidStudio mobile application is a simple event tracking app that allows a user to log in, add, update, and delete events, and get SMS notifications on the day of an event.
# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The application is designed for an Android Device, API 24 and above. It requests SMS permission from the device to send event notification, but SMS permission is not required for application to operate without notifications.

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The client required a login screen where users could login or sign up, and an event screen that displayed the user's events. The event screen required a floating-action-button for adding new events. A third screen was added, an event details screen, where the user could update the event information. To delete an event, the user can long-press the event card on the event details screen, or press the delete button on the event details screen. Finally, a notification icon in the top right corner is grey when SMS permission is not enabled. When the user presses the icon, a dialog opens that explains the importance of the permission and provides the user with the option to enable permission or ignore. If the user enables the SMS permission, then the notifications icon is colored orange.

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
I referenced the Secure Coding Guidelines for Java SE (Oracle, 2023) and the AndroidStudio Developers guide to ensure I creating secure code that adhered to the industries best standards. No matter what application I build, I intend to reference the relevant guidelines for the coding language, platform, device, purpose, and more, in the future. I coded the application in stages, starting with the smaller building blocks with a focus on the base functionality of the application.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
The application was tested with an Android Emulator Pixel 3A API 34. I started testing the application as soon as I wrote my first lines of code. Then, I continued to test the application after each piece of functionality was completed. After the application contained the necessary functionality, I tested the application for both regular and irregular uses cases, including as an existing user, first-time user, and non-user. 

# Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
There were many challenges in this design process that I overcame. First, the learning material was for a past version of Android Studio, so I had to patchwork the learning material with my current knowledge and other trusted resources to create the application's SMS notification functionality. I also had to balance my detail-oriented nature with staying on track in development. There were many times in the design process that I was distracted by my desire to have an above-and-beyond UI design. At a few points in development, I did an evaluation of the business requirements and my time constraints to find the best way to go above-and-beyond, without missing the deadline!

# In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I was particularly successful in demonstrating my knowledge and experience in the login screen of my mobile app. I worked from my prior experience with user research to develop a login screen that fulfills the requirements, provides strong brand representation, and is intuitive to users.
